So, guys, now let us discuss some prerequisite knowledge, which is essential to understand Linux
memory management.
So to understand the Linux memory management, we need to understand some basics first.
So we shall briefly discuss that.
What is what will address the space and what is what will memory.
And then we will finally discuss memory layout of a process once we understand the concept of what will
address the space and virtual memory together with family out of a process, then we shall be in the
position to dive deep into how stock memory and heap memory management is done by Linux operating system
at a lower level.
So let us start with our discussion with virtual space and virtual memory.
So, guys, now let us try to understand what is Whelchel Mahmoudi and what is watching that does space.
So watch your memory is the total amount of memory your system has for a process.
So remember what your memory is, the total amount of memory your system has for one process, right?
Virtual memory is different from physical memory and is computer architecture dependent?
That is, you cannot reconfigure or change the virtual memory size for a system.
So, for example, for a 32 bit system now, we will discuss later that what do we mean when we say
that our system is 32 bit system or 64 bit system?
For now?
Just assume that for a 32 bit system, total virtual memory is to restore the power of 32 bytes.
And it is fixed.
And always remember that these is restore the power.
32 bytes of virtual memory is available for each process running on the system.
These two restore the power 32 bytes is not for all the process combined together.
Now you must be thinking that if you run 100 processes, then does it mean that each process out of
those 100 process will have to restore the power 32 bytes of virtual memory?
The answer is yes.
That is why virtual memory is called virtual, because it is not actually a piece of actual hardware,
but it is actually a concept.
Would simulate a memory.
So remember what, memory is not an actual memory, which is torse data.
It is a conceptual thing and what your memory makes, the process believes that a process has to rest
with the power party to bytes of memory to store its data, whereas physical memory is an actual memory
and you have to buy a piece of ram chips from the market in order to install physical memory on your
system.
It is this physical memory which actually stores the program data.
So you can see that physical memory is an extendable memory and you can extend it to 4G.
We LGB are 16 GBE or even more, but there is an upper limit to which you can actually extend the size
of physical memory.
This upper limit is decided by the computer architecture, that is by the size of address bars and database
your system has.
Now, if you study computer organization in detail, then you will understand that why you cannot extend
the physical memory beyond a certain limit.
We will going to discuss this in detail in the coming lectures that why physical memory cannot be extended
beyond a certain size.
So for the 32 bit system, we have to restore the power, 32 bytes of virtual memory and every byte
has an address.
So this important point in our memory, every byte has an address when everybody it has an Adlerstein.
That particular memory is called byte addressable memory.
And because everybody, it has an address.
Therefore, there are two layers to the power today, to virtual addresses in a little bit system.
So computer programs Roarke's with virtual memory only means you have program access, only virtual
addresses.
You are programmed, read and write the data to virtual memory locations.
Your program never knows anything about physical memory.
All it knows that it has to restore the power to bytes of virtual memory to store its data.
So you can see that physical memory is completely isolated from the programs that you are running on
the system.
Now, when we shall be discussing the concept of Beijing, we will understand that how physical memory
is isolated from the programs running on the system and how program believes that it has to restore
the power 32 bytes of virtual memory to store its data.
Each process in execution is allotted virtual memory for its usage.
And when the process claims more and more memory during the runtime using mallock or carlot system calls
than the virtual memory, consumption of a process can grow maximum to to restore the power to 32 bytes
on a 32 bit system.
A process cannot claim memory more than this limit.
So to restore the power 32 bytes is actually for GBE, it means that on a 32 bit system, your program
theoretically cannot mallock more than four GB of virtual memory.
So, again, one question.
When in your C program you do dynamic memory allocation using Mallock or Kalac system calls, the amount
of memory that is allotted to your program is actually what's called memory and not a physical memory.
So remember, your program never knows anything about physical memory.
Your program expands its entire lifetime under the illusion that it has to restore the power to do bytes
of memory where it can store its data.
So the virtual memory, which is assigned to a process, is called process, which will address the
space.
Every process running on a 32 bit system can use a maximum of two days to the power to two bites of
virtual memory.
So on a 32 bit system, theoretically, a program cannot use bond to restore the power, 32 bytes of